HTML INTERVIEW QUESTIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

1) What is HTML?
2) Difference HTML Elements and Tags ?
3) What are attributes and how do you use them ?
4) Difference between block level and inline level ?
5) When are comments used in HTML ?
6) Tags which are used to display data in tabular form ?
7) how to create hyperlink in HTML ?
8) Name some common lists used when designing a page ?
9) What is a sementic in HTML ?
10) how to create a nested webpage in HTML ?
11) What is an image map ?
12) Does a hyperlink only apply to text ?
13) What is a style sheet ?
14) Explain the layout of HTML ?
15) What is marquee ?
16) Tags used to seperate sections of the text ?
17) Difference between div and span ?
18) What is the purpose of using alternative texts in images ?
19) How to create a new HTML element ?
20) Is the <!DOCTYPE html> tag considered as HTML Tag ?
21) Why is url encoded in HTML ?
22) What is the use of an iFrame tag ?
23) What are entities in HTML ?
24) Can you create multi-colored text in web page ?
25) How to make a picture of a background image of a web page ?
26) use of span tag ?
27) What are the advantage of collapsing wite space ?
28) Is there any way to keep list elements straight in an HTML file ?
29) Difference between Local storage and Session storage objects ?
30) When is it appropriate to use frames ?
31) How to insert a background image of a web page ?
32) What happens if you open the external css file in a browser ?
33) What is the hierechy that is being followed when it comes to style sheets ?
34) How do you create text on a webpage that allows you to send an email when clicked ?
35) How are active links diferent from normal links ?
36) Are there instances where the text will appear outside the browser ?
37) Advantage of grouping several checkboxes together ?
38) What happens if there is no text between the tags ? Doest this affect the display of the 
HTML file ?
39) What ae the limits of text field size ?
40) What is the relationship between the border and rule attributes ?
41) What is SVG ?
42) What is bitton tag ?
43) List the media types and formats supported by HTML ?
44) What is cell spacing and cell padding ?
45) difference between HTML and XHTML ?
46) How many types of CSS can be included in HTML ?
47) What are logical and physical tags ?
48) How can you apply js to web page ?



What are the new form elements in HTML5?
What is the DOM? How does the DOM work?
How does the browser rendering engine work?
What does a <DOCTYPE html> do?
What happens when DOCTYPE is not given?
What is the difference between standards mode and
quirks mode?
What is difference between HTML and XHTML?
What are the building blocks of HTML5?
Describe the difference between a cookie ,
sessionStorage and localStorage ?
What is Critical Rendering Path?
What are the Benefits of Server Side Rendering (SSR)
Over Client Side Rendering (CSR)?
What is the difference between a <span> and a
<div> ?
Name 5 common block-level and inline HTML
elements?
What are semantic and non-semantic elements?
What is the purpose of main element?
Define semantic markup. What are the semantic
meanings for <section>, <article>, <aside>,
<nav>, <header>, <footer> and when/how should
each be used in structuring html markup?
When should you use section , div or
article ?
What is Character Encoding?
What is the purpose of meta tags?
What does async and defer refer in script tag?
Describe the difference between <script> , <script
async> and <script defer>
Can you describe the difference between progressive
enhancement and graceful degradation?
What is the purpose of cache busting and how can
you achieve it?
Name 3 ways to decrease page load?
What ARIA and screenreaders are, and how to make a
website accessible?
What is the purpose of the alt attribute on images?
Explain some of the pros and cons for CSS
animations versus JavaScript animations?
What does CORS stand for and what issue does it
address?
Ways to improve website performance
Comparison of browsers engines like Chrome,
Firefox, Internet explorer, Safari?
What does the lang attribute in html do?
What are data- attributes good for?
Explain the difference between layout, painting and
compositing?
Explain about HTML Canvas?
Explain about HTML Layout Engines used by
browsers?
What are the semantic tags available in html5?
Why you would like to use semantic tag?
How to make page responsive?
What is difference between span tag and div tag?
What are optional closing tag?
What is a self closing tag?
Does the following trigger http request at the time of
page load?
How Geo-location API works in html5?
What is difference between SVG and Canvas?
Explain Drag and Drop in HTML5?
Why to use IndexedDB instead of WebSQL in HTML5?
Explain Application Cache in HTML5. OR What is a manifest file in HTML?
Explain Microdata in HTML5?
List the API available in HTML5?
What are different new form element types provided by HTML5?
What are the HTML tags which deprecated in HTML5?
How you can Use Modernizr in HTML5?
What is the use of WebSocket API?
What does enctype='multipart/form-data' mean?
What is progressive rendering?
What is difference between Select and Datalist?


