https://github.com/learning-zone/html-interview-questions 

What is difference between HTML and XHTML?
What are the building blocks of HTML5?
What are the semantic tags available in html5? - article, aside, nav, figure, figcaption, header, footer, section, time, summary, mark, main, details 
Why you would like to use semantic tag?
What does a <DOCTYPE html> do? - datalist, meter, output, progress
What happens when DOCTYPE is not given?
What are the new form elements in HTML5?
How many new form elements are introduced in html5?
What is difference between span tag and div tag?
What are optional closing tag?
What is a self closing tag?
Explain the difference between block elements and inline elements?
What are semantic and non-semantic elements?
What is the purpose of main element?
Define semantic markup. What are the semantic meanings for <section>, <article>, <aside>, <nav>, <header>, <footer> and when/how should each be used in structuring html markup?
When should you use section, div or article?
Can a web page contain multiple <header> elements? What about <footer> elements?
What is Character Encoding?
What is the purpose of meta tags?
What does async and defer refer in script tag? Describe the difference between <script>, <script async> and <script defer>
Describe the difference between a cookie, sessionStorage and localStorage?
Does localStorage throw error after reaches maximum limits?
Why to use IndexedDB instead of WebSQL in HTML5?
Explain Application Cache in HTML5. OR What is a manifest file in HTML?
What is the purpose of cache busting and how can you achieve it?
What ARIA and screenreaders are, and how to make a website accessible?
What is the purpose of the alt attribute on images?
What does enctype='multipart/form-data' mean?
What is difference between Select and Datalist?
Explain some of the pros and cons for CSS animations versus JavaScript animations?
What does CORS stand for and what issue does it address?
Can you describe the difference between progressive enhancement and graceful degradation?
What is the DOM? How does the DOM work?
How does the browser rendering engine work?
What is the difference between standards mode and quirks mode?
What is Critical Rendering Path?
What are the Benefits of Server Side Rendering (SSR) Over Client Side Rendering (CSR)?
Name 3 ways to decrease page load?
Ways to improve website performance
Comparison of browsers engines like Chrome, Firefox, Internet explorer, Safari?
What does the lang attribute in html do?
What is desktop first and mobile first design approach?
What are data- attributes good for?
Explain the difference between layout, painting and compositing?
Explain about HTML Layout Engines used by browsers?
How to make page responsive?
Does the following trigger http request at the time of page load?
List the API available in HTML5?
How geolocation api works in html5?
What is the use of WebSocket API?
Explain about HTML Canvas?
What is difference between SVG and Canvas?
Explain Drag and Drop in HTML5?
Explain Microdata in HTML5?
What are the HTML tags which deprecated in HTML5?
How you can Use Modernizr in HTML5?
What is progressive rendering?
What is an iframe and how it works?
Explain the use of rel="nofollow", rel="noreferrer", rel="noopener" attribute?
How can you highlight text in HTML?
How can I get indexed better by search engines?
What is the difference between an "attribute" and a "property" in HTML?
How do you set IE compatibility mode?
What is an optional tag?
What is an HTML preprocessor? Have you used different HTML templating languages before?
How do you change the direction of html text?
When is it appropriate to use the small element?
How do you serve a page with content in multiple languages?
What is the difference between <section> and <div>?
Discuss the differences between an HTML specification and a browser's implementation thereof.
Why you would use a srcset attribute in an image tag? Explain the process the browser used when evaluating the content of this attribute.
What is accessibility & ARIA role means in a web application?
