- difference between internal, external and inline
- priorities of selectors
- how many ways css color can be specified – rgb,rgba,hex,hsl,hsla,predefined color name
- set image as background – background-image, background-repeat,
 background-position,background-size, background-attachment, background
- set border – borde-style,border-width,border-color,border-radius
- margin collapse
- link states - link,visited,hover,active
- font fallback
- css units – absolute (6), relative(4)
- em vs rem, blur radius vs spread radius
-- filte, image sprites, gradient – linear & radial, overflow,resizeable, css lists, css tables, css
 function – calc() var(), box sizing, object-fit, pseudo class, position – static relative fixed
 absolute, Layers, z-index, float, clear, overflow,
- can u make variable in css ?
- pseudo class vs pseudo state vs pseudo element
- block vs inline vs inline-block
- 2D transform – translate, rotate, scale, skew, matrix
- 3D transform – prespective, rotate3d, translate3d,
- transitions - transition-width, transition-duration, transition-delay,transition-timing-function,
 Transition - Animation - @keyframes, animation-name, animation-duration,
 animation-iteration-count, animation-direction,
- Print style in css
- responsiveness – viewport meta tag, media query, make images and video responsive
-Advanced selectors – element,id,class,pseudo class,psedo
 element,attribute,universal,descendent combinator, child combinator,adjecent
 combinator,general sibling,add selector
- Specificity (point rule)
- multiple column – column-count,column-gap,colum-rule-style,column-span,column-width
flexbox – make responsive web page without float and position, display : flex, flexdirection,
 flex-wrap,justify-content,aligh-items,align-content,order,flex-grow,flex-shrink,flex-basis,align-self
- css grid –
 grid-template-columns,grid-template-rows,drid-column-gap,grid-row-gap,justify-content,align-c
ontent,grid-area,grid-template-area
-css validation - online cs validation checker


Q. How to draw a circle inside Square using single DIV in css?
Q. How to center align a div inside another div?
Q. What are the css selectors?
Q. What is the difference between Pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements?
Q. What is Combinator selector?
Q. What is the difference between class selectors and id selectors?
Q. When to use css grid and flexbox?
Q. What is CSS BEM?
Q. What are the benefits of using CSS sprites?
Q. What is the float property and what float do?
Q. What is tweening in css?
Q. Explain the difference between visibility: hidden; and display: none; ? What are the pros and 
cons of using display:none ?
Q. What is DOM reflow?
Q. What is the purpose of the z-index and how is it used?
Q. Exaplain CSS position Property?
Q. The difference between block, inline and inline-block element?
Q. What are counters in CSS3?
Q. Are CSS rule names case sensitive?
Q. Does margin-top or margin-bottom has effect on inline element?
Q. Does padding-top or padding-bottom has effect on inline element?
Q. Which one would you prefer among px, em % or pt and why?
Q. Does padding-left or padding-right or margin-left or margin-right has effect on inline element?
Q. In a HTML document the pseudo class :root always refers to the html element?
Q. What is pseudo element? What is pseudo class?
Q. The pseudo class :checked will select inputs with type radio or checkbox, but not <option>
 elements?
Q. Explain the CSS “box model” and the layout components that it consists of?
Q. Explain the meaning of each of these CSS units for expressing length?
Q. In CSS3, how would you select?
Q. What is the purpose of the box-sizing property?
Q. How to create a zebra striped table with CSS?
Q. What is the difference between RGBa, HEX and HSLa?
Q. What is CSS preprocessor?
Q. What is the difference between "resetting" and "normalizing" CSS?
Q. Describe clear Property in css?
Q. Explain CSS Block Formatting Context?
Q. Does overflow: hidden create a new block formatting context?
Q. How would you approach fixing browser-specific styling issues?
Q. How do you serve your pages for feature-constrained browsers? What techniques do you
 use?
Q. What are the different ways to visually hide content (and make it available only for screen 
readers)?
Q. What are media queries? How could you apply css rules specific to a media?
Q. What is the use of @media only screen ?
Q. Does the screen keyword apply to the device's physical screen or the browser's viewport?
Q. How would you implement a web design comp that uses non-standard fonts?
Q. How a browser determines what elements match a CSS selector?
Q. How can you load css resources conditionally?
Q. What does * { box-sizing: border-box; } do? What are its advantages?
Q. List display property in CSS?
Q. How is responsive design different from adaptive design?
Q. What is retina graphics? What kind of techniques do you use to handle images for retina 
screens?
Q. Is there any reason you'd want to use translate() instead of absolute positioning, or 
vice-versa?
Q. The translate() function can move the position of an element on the z-axis?
Q. Tell what each of these tags do, if there are alternatives, which are preferable, why?
Q. What is At-Rule?
Q. How can the gap under the image be removed?
Q. What is progressive rendering?
Q. What is mobile-first? Can you explain the difference between coding a website to be 
responsive versus using a mobile-first strategy?
Q. What is Accessibility (a11y) in a web application?
Q. What is UI/UX?
Q. Which property is used to change the face of a font?
Q. Which property is used to make a font italic or oblique?
Q. Which property is used to create a small-caps effect?
Q. Which property is used to increase or decrease how bold or light a font appears?
Q. Which property is used to add or subtract space
between the letters that make up a word?
Q. Which property is used to add or subtract space
between the words of a sentence?
Q. Which property is used to indent the text of a
paragraph?
Q. Which property is used to align the text of a
document?
Q. Which property is used to underline, overline, and
strikethrough text?
Q. Which property is used to capitalize text or convert
text to uppercase or lowercase letters?
Q. Which property allows you to control the shape or
appearance of the marker of a list?
Q. How do I restore the default value of a property?
Q. What is specificity? How to calculate specificity?
Q. What do you know about CSS Transitions?
Q. What are the different css filters you can use?
Q. Enlist the various fonts properties?
Q. What is the difference between em and rem units?
Q. What does !important mean in CSS?
Q. Does style2.css have to be downloaded and parsed
before Paragraph 1 is rendered on the page?
<head>
<link href="style1.css" rel="stylesheet">
</head>
<body>
<p>Paragraph 1</p>
<p>Paragraph 2</p>
<link href="style2.css" rel="stylesheet">
</body>
Q. Does style1.css have to be downloaded and parsed
before style2.css can be fetched?
<head>
<link href="style1.css" rel="stylesheet">
<link href="style2.css" rel="stylesheet">
</head>
Q. What are the CSS positioning?
Q. What is the difference between padding and margin?
Q. Explain new features in CSS3?
Q. What are gradients in CSS?
Q. What is CSS opacity?
Q. What is contextual selector?
Q. How is the concept of inheritance applied in CSS?
Q. How do you handle browser differences in your user
base?
Q. What is Cascade?
Q. How Do I Have A Fixed (non-scrolling) Background
Image?
Q. Describe the following common CSS units of length:
cm, em, in, mm, pc, pt, and px?
Q. What are CSS vendor prefixes?


