
can we use accept attribute with form ?
It was supported on the <form> element, but was removed in favor of file.

why cite attribute is used ?
what is the use if data-* attribute ?
what is the use of datetime attribute ?
diff enctype vs charset vs accept-charset vs accept 
significance of high attribute in meter tag
use of kind attribute

_self vs _blank vs _parent vs _top
significance of href attribute in base tag
use of bdi tag 
bdi vs bdo 
tag for blockquote or q ?
can we have multiple body tag 
what is canvas 
use difference between cite, dfn, em, i and address tag 
usee of data tag ?
data vs datalist
use of details tag
dir tag vs dir attribute
difference between div and section, div, main and article
what are ol, ul and dl tags
why use embed tag
use of figure and figcation
what is frame, noframes, iframe and frameset ?
why use head tag ?
can there be multiple headers and footers ?
can a header be used inside an article ?
what is the use of hgroup tag ?
any attribute use with html tag ?
tag which is not contained by html tag ? 
can we use image or pdf inside an iframe tag ?
can embed tag render all types of file like .bat file ?
why use kbd tag when we have code, sample, var and pre tag ?
why use embed tag when we have img, iframe, audio and video tag ?
difference between embed tag and object tag ?
is it mandatory to use label tag ?
what is legend tag ?
li tag can only be used with ol, ul and menu but not with dl tag
difference between link and a tag ?
can we use multiple main tag ?
what is map tag ?
difference between menu and ul tag ?
attributes of meta, link, base and title tags
write some html 5 tags and semantic tags ?
difference between meter tag and progress tag ?
inside nav should li be inside a tag or a tag inside li tag
what is script and noscript tag ?
difference between embed and object tag ?
is optgroup tag text selectable ?
can option tag can be used with select, optgroup and datalist tag ?
what is input and output tag ?
use of param tag ?
difference between img and picture tag ?
difference between pre, code, samp, kbd and var?
difference between progress, meter and input with progress attribute ?
difference between q and blockquote tag ?
what are ruby, rt and rp tags ?
difference between s, strike and del tag ?
can we use script and no script tag inside body tag ?
attributes of script and no script ?
difference between html and xhtml 
use of search tag ?
difference between section, article, div tag ?
what happens when we omit name attribute from select tag ?
ource tag is used with audio, video and picture tag ?
difference between strong and b tag
attributes used with style tag ?
what is summary and legend tag ?
differene between svg and canvas ?
can a table have multiple tbody ?
use of template tag ?
use of time tag ?
use of track tag ?
difference between u and ins tag ?
tags which are used but do not render on the browser ?
does text between audio and video render on the browser ?
list tags when some tags are written inside does show all other stuff fails like iframe, audio, video etc
what is wbr


This is repetation of the questions



----------------------------

Doubts
value attr use can be used with button
target attr can be used with form
tabindex ?
srcset attr with img ?
rel attribute  ?
difference between rowspan, colsapan and span ?
difference between popover, popovertarget, and popovertargetaction ?
use optium attr with meter ?
multiple attribute can be used with input when type is file 
difference between maxlength and max ?
lang attribute ?
ismap attribute ?
inputmode attribute ?
inert attribute usage ?
hreflang attribute ?
http-equiv attribute ?
useage headers attribute ?
difference between formaction and action ?
enctype ?
difference between data and data-* attribute ?
difference between cite tag and cite attribute ?
charset and accept-charset ?







































