about yourself.
Hi, Good Morning !!!

First of all, thank you for giving me the wonderful chance to speak about myself in front of you. I am
Shyam Pandit from Mumbai,
Coming to my educational background; I have done 10+2 in CBSE board, then I came to Mumbai for
higher studies. I have completed my engineering in computer science stream from IIT, Mumbai. Also, I
have done many courses on Java, J2EE, C++, .Net and oracle.
Coming to my work experience: Currently, I am at Oracle as a Front End web Developer, I joined oracle
as a fresher and I have been there since 8 years. Although we all know, practical knowledge only comes
with experience. In Oracle, I have learned a lot by practicing and developing many web applications.
Luckily, I got very good working team, they are very co-operative by nature, so that all projects were
successfully and appreciated by others.

My hobbies are; rafting, watching news and comedy serials, listening music, cooking Chinese food,
exercising, playing basketball, reading business magazines and novels, outing, meeting with different
cultural of people and making friends.

My strengths are; positive towards things, motivate and help others in their bad situation, hard working
and my interpersonal skill make me popular everywhere. My weaknesses is; I am very emotional by
nature.

Command on Languages: I can write and speak English, Hindi, Nepali, and French. My short term goal is
to get this job profile into this company and long term goal is to achieve a superior position in the same
company

That's all about me... Thank you...

My name is Himanshu Rai. I am a software engineer

In my spare time, I like reading and jogging only if the wheather allows me to

2. Why should we hire you?
Honestly, I possess all the skills and experience that you’re looking for. I’m pretty confident that I am the
best candidate for this job role.
It’s not just my background in the past projects, but also my people skills, which will be applicable in this
position.

On the other hand, I am a self motivated person and I try to exceed my superior’s expectations with high-
quality work. Being a fast learner, I quickly pick up business knowledge related to my project.

Lastly, I would like to add that I work well both as an individual contributor and also as a team member.
Collectively, all these skills put together makes me a complete package for this job.”

3. What is your greatest strength?
I really enjoys software development and writting code. When I step into the I become so focused that I
no one is around me. I do my work with complete dedication always try to my 100%. It is my motto in
life to learn something new everyday and I actively seek feedback to keep growing.
4. What is your greatest weakness?
-I think I have poor communication skills. Sometimes It become really hard for me for present my
thaughts in front of others or we can say there is a difference in what I am saying and what I want say. So,
to overcome from this I attend webinars, watch videos and practice to improve it.
- I think I am too much detail oriented There was a time when one of my senior analyzed my code and
suggest me to mention details as short as possible. For example I used multiline comment in all function
when I was coding but after that I started using doc comment which provide better details and also easy to
implement.
- When I’m given a task, I am very goal-oriented and work hard to complete that task. However, when
new projects come across my plate, I sometimes jump right into those projects and halt work on the
projects I had in progress. Having to jump between tasks, so many times throughout the day hinders my
productivity and prevents me from delivering my best work. I have been using a project management tool
to help me manage my tasks and my time, which has helped me become more aware of prioritization.
Since implementing this project management mentality, I have only improved my efficiency and
productivity.
5. Why do you want to leave (or have left) your current job?
6. What are your salary expectation?
“I’ll be glad to talk about salary in a future interview. I’m sure we can come to a number that works for
both of us. But for now, I want to determine if I’m a good fit for your company and your company is a
good fit for me.”
Based on my glassdoor research and this comapy name I am especting salary according to the name and
brand of the company. I am especting salary acording to the company norms.
7. Why do you want this job?
Abc’s reputation is certainly a factor. Also, I have heard abhout this company from one of my friend that
the company’s culture encourages learning and development while on the job and really rewards
hardwork.

As company is planning to launch several products and features in the upcomming months and I would
love to be a part of this growth. I know that my experience and skills will help company with on time
releases and delivery.
8. How do you handle stress and pressure?
I believe planning is an important tool in handling stress for me. Firstly, knowing details about the work
the priortizing them really help me from getting stressed. But on the other hand stress can be a big
motivator for me also. A healthy amount of pressure helps me produce efficient, quality work by giving
me a picture of what my colleagues need from me and when.

9. Describe a difficult work situation or project and how you overcame it.
I had faced a situation in my previous company. It was a time when I was a newbie to the company and
after completing an assignment we hae to release it in prouction. So My senior and I step inside a cabin
and start releasing it But due to some reason the result was not as like we expected and due to that I
become so stresed that I was start sweting and my face become red. Then both of us started to find
problem in every single step. After some time we come to know that we pushed our code in some other
branch in github. Then after finding it was easy to ressolve it .
This challange thaught me when things are not going as we expected firstly we should calm down for a
minute then start to analyze the task in step by step manner.
10. What are your goals for the future?
I am really exited about his position because in the future, I would like to see myself having end to end
expertise in website development and I know this job will give me that opportunity. I am even exited
about developing my leadership skills and my knowledge regarding other technology like Android
development and in couple of years possibly even take the lead on some projects.

11. Any questions ?
- What are the other carrer paths in your company?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hii Connections,

I lost my job due to this COVID-19 outbreak.
My Details
Total experience - 1.5 years
Work Profile - Front End developer / Angular Developer
Skills - Angular, Javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS
Location Preference - #delhincr #noida #gurgaon
Email Id - raiofficial9@gmail.com
Contact no. - 9318370448

Immediate joiner
" Even if you don't have any open position at the moment, request you to 'LIKE', 'SHARE' and
'COMMENT' on this post so that it may appear on your profile and someone from your network
will be able to see and help. "
Thank You.