ANGULAR INTERVIEW QUESTIONS


subject behavour -

What is Angular Framework? - TypeScript-based open-source front-end platform that makes it
 easy to build applications with in web/mobile/desktop.
What is the difference between AngularJS and Angular?
What is TypeScript? - strongly typed superset of JavaScript created by Microsoft that adds 
Optional types, classes, async/await, and many other features, and compiles to plain 
JavaScript. 
Write a pictorial diagram of Angular architecture?
What are the key components of Angular? - components, templates, modules, services,
 metadata
What are directives? - add behaviour to an existing DOM element or an existing
 component instance.
What are components? - most basic UI building block of an Angular app which formed a
tree of Angular components.
What are the differences between Component and Directive?
What is a template? - HTML view where you can display data by binding controls to
properties of an Angular component.
What is a module? - logical boundaries in your application and the application is divided into
separate modules to separate the functionality of your application.
entryComponents -
 https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-entrycomponents-in-angular-ngmodule/#:~:text=What%
20is%20entryComponents%20in%20angular%20ngModule%20%3F,-Last%20Updated%20%3
A%2014&text=The%20entryComponent%20is%20the%20component,declared%20in%20the%
20component%20template.
What are lifecycle hooks available? - Angular application goes through an entire set of
 processes or has a lifecycle right from its initiation to the end of the application.
What is a data binding? - allows to define communication between a component and the
 DOM, making it very easy to define interactive applications without worrying about pushing and
 pulling data.
What is metadata? - used to decorate a class so that it can configure the expected
 behavior of the class.
What is Angular CLI? - command line interface to scaffold and build angular apps using nodejs
 style (commonJs) modules.
What is the difference between constructor and ngOnInit? - TypeScript classes has a
 default method called constructor which is normally used for the initialization purpose. Whereas
 ngOnInit method is specific to Angular, especially used to define Angular bindings.
What is a service - used when a common functionality needs to be provided to various
modules.
What is dependency injection in Angular? - application design pattern in which a class
asks for dependencies from external sources rather than creating them itself.
How is Dependency Hierarchy formed?
What is the purpose of async pipe? - subscribes to an observable or promise and returns the
 latest value it has emitted.
What is the option to choose between inline and external template file? - template vs 
templateUrl
What is the purpose of *ngFor directive? - display each item in the list.

What is the purpose of ngIf directive? - Sometimes an app needs to display a view or a portion
 of a view only under specific circumstances
What happens if you use script tag inside template? - Angular recognizes the value as unsafe
 and automatically sanitizes it, which removes the <script> tag but keeps safe content such as
 the text content of the <script> tag.
What is interpolation? - Angular replaces that name with the string value of the corresponding
 component property.
What are template expressions? - produces a value similar to any Javascript expression.
What are template statements? - responds to an event raised by a binding target such as
 an element, component, or directive.
How do you categorize data binding types?
What are pipes? - A pipe takes in data as input and transforms it to a desired output.
What is a parameterized pipe? - A pipe can accept any number of optional parameters to
 fine-tune its output.
How do you chain pipes? - pipe1 | pipe2 | pipe3
What is a custom pipe?
Give an example of custom pipe?
What is the difference between pure and impure pipe? - A pure pipe is only called when
 Angular detects a change in the value or the parameters passed to a pipe. An impure
 pipe is called for every change detection cycle no matter whether the value or
 parameters changes.
What is a bootstrapping module? - Every application has at least one Angular module, the root
 module that you bootstrap to launch the application is called as bootstrapping module
What are observables? - declarative which provide support for passing messages between
publishers and subscribers in your application.
What is HttpClient and its benefits? - Angular provides a simplified client HTTP API known as
 HttpClient which is based on top of XMLHttpRequest interface.
Explain on how to use HttpClient with an example?
How can you read full response? - observe option from HttpClient,
How do you perform Error handling? - If the request fails on the server or failed to reach the
 server due to network issues then HttpClient will return an error object instead of a successful
 reponse.
What is RxJS? - RxJS is a library for composing asynchronous and callback-based code
 in a functional, reactive style using Observables.
What is subscribing? - An Observable instance begins publishing values only when 
someone subscribes to it. So you need to subscribe by calling the subscribe() method of
 the instance, passing an observer object to receive the notifications.
What is an observable? - unique Object similar to a Promise that can help manage async
code.
What is an observer? - interface for a consumer of push-based notifications delivered by an
Observable.
What is the difference between promise and observable?
What is multicasting? - practice of broadcasting to a list of multiple subscribers in a single
execution.
How do you perform error handling in observables?
What is the short hand notation for subscribe method?
What are the utility functions provided by RxJS?
What are observable creation functions? - RxJS provides creation functions for the process
 of creating observables from things such as promises, events, timers and Ajax requests.
What will happen if you do not supply handler for observer? - the observer just ignores
notifications of that type.
What are angular elements? - Angular Elements hosts an Angular component, providing a
 bridge between the data and logic defined in the component and  Standard DOM APIs, thus,
 providing a way to use Angular components in non-Angular environments .
What is the browser support of Angular Elements?
What are custom elements? - a Web Platform feature which extends HTML by
allowing you to define a tag whose content is created and controlled by JavaScript code.
Do I need to bootstrap custom elements? - No
Explain how custom elements works internally? - 
How to transfer components to custom elements?
What are the mapping rules between Angular component and custom element?
How do you define typings for custom elements? - NgElement and WithProperties types
 exported from @angular/elements.
What are dynamic components? - components in which components location in the
 application is not defined at build time
What are the various kinds of directives? - components, structural and attribute
How do you create directives using CLI? - ng generate directive
Give an example for attribute directives?
What is Angular Router? - mechanism in which navigation happens from one view to the next
 as users perform application tasks.
What is the purpose of base href tag? - The routing application should add element to the
 index.html as the first child in the tag in order to indicate how to compose navigation URLs.
What are the router imports? - available in @angular/router instead @angular/core
What is router outlet? - The RouterOutlet is a directive from the router library and it acts as a
 placeholder that marks the spot in the template where the router should display the 
components for that outlet.
What are router links? - directive on the anchor tags give the router control over those
 elements.
What are active router links? - the Router will add CSS classes when this link is active and
 and remove when the link is inactive.
What is router state? - RouterState is a tree of activated routes. Every node in this tree
 knows about the "consumed" URL segments, the extracted parameters, and the
 resolved data.
What are router events? - During each navigation, the Router emits navigation events through
 the Router.events property allowing you to track the lifecycle of the route.
What is activated route? - contains the information about a route associated with a component 
loaded in an outlet.
How do you define routes? - A router must be configured with a list of route definitions.
What is the purpose of Wildcard route? - If the URL doesn't match any predefined routes 
then it causes the router to throw an error and crash the app
Do I need a Routing Module always? - No
What is Angular Universal? - server-side rendering module for Angular applications in various
 scenarios.
What are different types of compilation in Angular?
What is JIT? - compiles your app in the browser at runtime.
What is AOT? - compiles your app at build time.
Why do we need compilation process? - The Angular components and templates cannot be
 understood by the browser directly.
What are the advantages with AOT?
What are the ways to control AOT compilation?
What are the restrictions of metadata?
What are the two phases of AOT? - code analysis, code generation, validation
Can I use arrow functions in AOT? - No can’t be used to assign values to the decorator
 properties
What is the purpose of metadata json files? - The metadata.json file can be treated as a 
diagram of the overall structure of a decorator's metadata, represented as an abstract syntax
 tree(AST).
Can I use any javascript feature for expression syntax in AOT? - No
What is folding? - a process in which the collector evaluate an expression during collection
 and record the result in the .metadata.json instead of the original expression.
What are macros? - The AOT compiler supports macros in the form of functions or static
 methods that return an expression in a single return expression
Give an example of few metadata errors?
What is metadata rewriting? - process in which the compiler converts the expression 
initializing the fields such as useClass, useValue, useFactory, and data into an exported
 variable, which replaces the expression.
How do you provide configuration inheritance? - Angular Compiler supports configuration
 inheritance through extends in the tsconfig.json on angularCompilerOptions.
How do you specify angular template compiler options? - angularCompilerOptions
object in the tsconfig.json file
How do you enable binding expression validation? - fullTemplateTypeCheck in the 
"angularCompilerOptions" of the project's tsconfig.json.
What is the purpose of any type cast function? - can disable binding expression type checking
 using $any() type cast function
What is Non null type assertion operator? - to suppress the Object is possibly 'undefined'
error.
What is type narrowing?
How do you describe various dependencies in angular application? - Angular packages, 
Supported packages, polyfill packages
What is zone? - A Zone is an execution context that persists across async tasks. Angular relies
 on zone.js to run Angular's change detection processes when native JavaScript operations 
raise events
What is the purpose of common module? - commonly-needed services, pipes, and directives
 provided by @angular/common module.
What is codelyzer? - provides set of tslint rules for static code analysis of Angular TypeScript
 projects.
What is angular animation? - Angular's animation system is built on CSS functionality in order
 to animate any property that the browser considers animatable. These properties includes 
positions, sizes, transforms, colors, borders etc.
What are the steps to use animation module?
What is State function? - used to define different states to call at the end of each transition. 
This function takes two arguments: a unique name like open or closed and a style() function.
What is Style function? - used to define a set of styles to associate with a given state name.
What is the purpose of animate function? - way to implement sophisticated and compelling 
animations for your Angular single page web application.
What is transition function? - used to specify the changes that occur between one state and
another over a period of time. It accepts two arguments: the first argument accepts an 
Expression that defines the direction between two transition states, and the second argument 
accepts an animate() function.
How to inject the dynamic script in angular? - DomSanitizer
What is a service worker and its role in Angular? - script that runs in the web browser and
 manages caching for an application.
What are the design goals of service workers?
What are the differences between AngularJS and Angular with respect to dependency
 injection?
What is Angular Ivy? - new rendering engine for Angular.
What are the features included in ivy preview?
Can I use AOT compilation with Ivy? - yes
What is Angular Language Service? - way to get completions, errors, hints, and navigation
 Inside your Angular templates whether they are external in an HTML file or embedded in
annotations/decorators in a string.
How do you install angular language service in the project?
Is there any editor support for Angular Language Service? - VS code, webstorm
Explain the features provided by Angular Language Service? -Autocompletion, error
 Checking, navigation
How do you add web workers in your application? -ng generate web-worker app
What are the limitations with web workers?
What is Angular CLI Builder? - CLI Builder API is stable and available to developers who want
 to customize the Angular CLI by adding or modifying commands.
What is a builder? - A builder function ia a function that uses the Architect API to perform a 
complex process such as "build" or "test". The builder code is defined in an npm package.
How do you invoke a builder? - ng run
How do you create app shell in Angular? - App shell is a way to render a portion of your 
application via a route at build time.
What are the case types in Angular? - camelCase, upperCamelCase, dash-case,
 Upper_underscore_case
What are the class decorators in Angular? - A class decorator is a decorator that appears 
immediately before a class definition, which declares the class to be of the given type, and 
provides metadata suitable to the type
What are class field decorators? - class field decorators are the statements declared 
immediately before a field in a class definition that defines the type of that field.
What is declarable in Angular? - Declarable is a class type that you can add to the 
declarations list of an NgModule.
What are the restrictions on declarable classes?
What is a DI token? - A DI token is a lookup token associated with a dependency provider in 
dependency injection system. The injector maintains an internal token-provider map that it
 references when asked for a dependency and the DI token is the key to the map.
What is Angular DSL? - A domain-specific language (DSL) is a computer language specialized 
to a particular application domain. Angular has its own Domain Specific Language (DSL) which 
allows us to write Angular specific html-like syntax on top of normal html
What is an rxjs Subject? - An RxJS Subject is a special type of Observable that allows values 
to be multicasted to many Observers. While plain Observables are unicast
What is Bazel tool? - Bazel is a powerful build tool developed and massively used by Google 
and it can keep track of the dependencies between different packages and build targets.
What are the advantages of Bazel tool?
How do you use Bazel with Angular CLI?
How do you run Bazel directly?
What is platform in Angular? - A platform is the context in which an Angular application runs.
What happens if I import the same module twice? - angular evaluates it only once
How do you select an element with in a component template? - use @ViewChild directive
How do you detect route change in Angular?- subscribe to router to detect the changes. The 
subscription for router events
How do you pass headers for HTTP client?- can directly pass object map for http client or create 
HttpHeaders class to supply the headers.
What is the purpose of differential loading in CLI? - 
Is Angular supports dynamic imports? - Yes, using loadChildren
What is lazy loading? - It helps us to download the web pages in chunks instead of
 downloading everything in a big bundle.
What are workspace APIs? - Angular 8.0 release introduces Workspace APIs to make it easier 
for developers to read and modify the angular.json file instead of manually modifying it.
How do you upgrade angular version? - ng update @angular/cli @angular/core
What is Angular Material? - collection of Material Design components for Angular framework 
following the Material Design spec.
How do you upgrade location service of angularjs? - LocationUpgradeModule
What is NgUpgrade? - library put together by the Angular team, which you can use in your 
applications to mix and match AngularJS and Angular components and bridge the AngularJS 
and Angular dependency injection systems.
How do you test Angular application using CLI? - ng test
How to use polyfills in Angular application? - Mandatory & Optional polyfills
What are the ways to trigger change detection in Angular? - ApplicationRef.tick(), 
NgZone.run(callback), ChangeDetectorRef.detectChanges()
What are the differences of various versions of Angular?
What are the security principles in angular?
What is the reason to deprecate Web Tracing Framework? - not well maintained and failed in
 majority of the applications,
What is the reason to deprecate web worker packages? - Angular team realized it's not good
 practice to run the Angular application on Web worker
How do you find angular CLI version? - ng version, ng v, ng --version, ng -v
What is the browser support for Angular?
What is schematic - It's a scaffolding library that defines how to generate or transform a 
programming project by creating, modifying, refactoring, or moving files and code. It defines 
rules that operate on a virtual file system called a tree.
What is rule in Schematics? - function that operates on a file tree to create, delete, or modify
 files in a specific manner.
What is Schematics CLI? - I. It is used to install the schematics executable, which you can use
 to create a new schematics collection with an  Initial named schematic.
What are the best practices for security in angular?
What is Angular security model for preventing XSS attacks? - Angular treats all values as
 untrusted by default. i.e, Angular sanitizes and escapes untrusted values
What is the role of template compiler for prevention of XSS attacks? - prevents vulnerabilities
 caused by template injection, and greatly improves application performance.
What are the various security contexts in Angular?- Html, styles, URL, Resource URL
What is Sanitization? Is angular supports it? - inspection of an untrusted value, turning it into
 a value that's safe to insert into the DOM.
What is the purpose of innerHTML? - allows you to set it's html-content programmatically.
What is the difference between interpolated content and innerHTML? - behavior of code
 interpreted.
How do you prevent automatic sanitization? - DomSanitizer:
Is safe to use direct DOM API methods in terms of security?- No
What is DOM sanitizer? - used to help preventing Cross Site Scripting Security bugs (XSS) by
 Sanitizing values to be safe to use in the different DOM contexts.
How do you support server side XSS protection in Angular application? - using a templating
language that automatically escapes values to prevent XSS vulnerabilities on the server.
Is angular prevents http level vulnerabilities? - HttpClientModule
What are Http Interceptors? - part of @angular/common/http, which inspect and transform
 HTTP requests from your application to the server and vice-versa on HTTP responses.
What are the applications of HTTP interceptors? - Authentication, logging, caching, file
 Backend, url transformation, modifying headers,
Is multiple interceptors supported in Angular? - yes
How can I use interceptor for an entire application? - by importing the HttpClientModule only in 
your AppModule, and add the interceptors to the root application injector.
How does Angular simplifies Internationalization?
How do you manually register locale data? - registerLocaleData
What are the four phases of template translation?
What is the purpose of i18n attribute? - marks translatable content.
What is the purpose of custom id? - When you change the translatable text, the Angular 
extractor tool generates a new id for that translation unit. Because of this behavior, you must
 then update the translation file with the new id every time.
What happens if the custom id is not unique? - If you use the same id for two different text
 Messages then only the first one is extracted.
Can I translate text without creating an element?- Yes using <ng-container> attribute
How can I translate attribute? - by attaching i18n-x
List down the pluralization categories?
What is select ICU expression? - ICU expression is is similar to the plural expressions except
 that you choose among alternative translations based on a string value instead of a number.
How do you report missing translations? - By default, When translation is missing, it
 generates a warning
How do you provide build configuration for multiple locales? -configuration settings of
 Angular.json file.
What is an angular library? - An Angular library is an Angular project that differs from an app
 in that it cannot run on its own. It must be imported and used in an app
What is AOT compiler? - part of a build process that produces a small, fast, ready-to-run
 Application package, typically for production.
How do you select an element in component template? - via ElementRef by injecting it into your
 component's constructor.
What is TestBed? - an api for writing unit tests for Angular applications and it's libraries.
What is protractor? - an end-to-end test framework for Angular and AngularJS applications.
What is collection? - a set of related schematics collected in an npm package.
How do you create schematics for libraries?
How do you use jquery in Angular?
What is the reason for No provider for HTTP exception? -due to missing HttpClientModule in
 your module
What is router state? - an interface which represents the state of the router as a tree of
 Activated routes.
How can I use SASS in angular project?
What is the purpose of hidden property? - used to show or hide the associated DOM element,
 based on an expression.
What is the difference between ngIf and hidden property?
What is slice pipe? - used to create a new Array or String containing a subset (slice) of the
 elements.
What is index property in ngFor directive? - used to return the zero-based index of the item
 in each iteration
What is the purpose of ngFor trackBy? - performance optimization
What is the purpose of ngSwitch directive? - displays one element from among several
 possible elements, based on a switch condition.
Is it possible to do aliasing for inputs and outputs? - Yes
What is safe navigation operator? - used to guard against null and undefined values in
 property paths when you are not aware whether a path exists or not. i
Is any special configuration required for Angular9? - NO
What are type safe TestBed API changes in Angular9? - Testbed.inject() instead Testbed.get()
Is mandatory to pass static flag for ViewChild? - No need in Angular 9 onwards
What are the list of template expression operators?
What is the precedence between pipe and ternary operators? - pipe has higher

What is an entry component? - An entry component is any component that Angular loads
 imperatively(i.e, not referencing it in the template) by type.
What is a bootstrapped component? - A bootstrapped component is an entry component that
 Angular loads into the DOM during the bootstrap process or application launch time.
How do you manually bootstrap an application? - use ngDoBootstrap hook for a manual
 bootstrapping of the application instead of using bootstrap array in @NgModule annotation
Is it necessary for bootstrapped component to be entry component? - yes
What is a routed entry component? - The components referenced in router configuration
Why is not necessary to use entryComponents array every time?
Do I still need to use entryComponents array in Angular9? - No
Is it all components generated in production build? - No, only the entry components and
 template components appears in production builds.
What is Angular compiler? - convert the application code into JavaScript code.
What is the role of ngModule metadata in compilation process? - used to tell the Angular
 compiler what components to be compiled for this module and how to link this module with 
other modules.
How does angular finds components, directives and pipes?
Give few examples for NgModules?
What are feature modules? - are NgModules, which are used for the purpose of organizing
 code.
What are the imported modules in CLI generated feature modules? - NgModule, Common
 module
What are the differences between ngmodule and javascript module?
What are the possible errors with declarations?
What are the steps to use declaration elements?
What happens if browserModule used in feature module? - error telling you to use
 CommonModule instead.
What are the types of feature modules? - Domain, Routed, Routing, Service, Widget
What is a provider? - an instruction to the Dependency Injection system on how to obtain a
 value for a dependency(aka services created).
What is the recommendation for provider scope? - root injector
How do you restrict provider scope to a module?
How do you provide a singleton service?
What are the different ways to remove duplicate service registration?
How does forRoot method helpful to avoid duplicate router instances? - If the
 RouterModule module didn’t have forRoot() static method then each feature module would
instantiate a new Router instance, which leads to broken application due to duplicate instances.
What is a shared module? - module in which you put commonly used directives, pipes, and
components into one module that is shared(import it) throughout the application.
Can I share services using modules? - No
How do you get current direction for locales?? - getLocaleDirection
What is ngcc? - The ngcc(Angular Compatibility Compiler) is a tool which upgrades
 node_module compiled with non-ivy ngc into ivy compliant format. The postinstall script from
 package.json will make sure your node_modules will be compatible with the Ivy renderer.
What classes should not be added to declarations?
Wat is ngzone? - which creates a zone named angular to automatically trigger change
 detection when the following conditions are satisfied.
What is NoopZone?
How do you create displayBlock components?
What are the possible data change scenarios for change detection?
What is a zone context? - Execution Context is an abstract concept that holds information 
about the environment within the current code being executed. A zone provides an execution 
context that persists across asynchronous operations is called as zone context.
What are the lifecycle hooks of a zone? - onScheduleTask, onInvokeTask, onHasTask, 
onInvoke
Which are the methods of NgZone used to control change detection? - run()
How do you change the settings of zonejs?
How do you trigger an animation? - trigger()
How do you configure injectors with providers at different levels?
Is it mandatory to use injectable on every service class? - No
What is an optional dependency? - is a parameter decorator to be used on constructor 
parameters, which marks the parameter as being an optional dependency
What are the types of injector hierarchies? - ModuleInjector, ElementInjector
What are reactive forms? - model-driven approach for creating forms in a reactive style(form
 Inputs changes over time).
What are dynamic forms? - is a pattern in which we build a form dynamically based on 
metadata that describes a business object model.
What are template driven forms? - model-driven forms where you write the logic, validations,
 controls etc, in the template part of the code using directives.
What are the differences between reactive forms and template driven forms?
What are the different ways to group form controls? - formgroup, formarray
How do you update specific properties of a form model? - patchValue()
What is the purpose of FormBuilder? - FormBuilder is used as syntactic sugar for easily
 creating instances of a FormControl, FormGroup, or FormArray.
How do you verify the model changes in forms?
What are the state CSS classes provided by ngModel? - visited, valid, value changed
How do you reset the form? - this.form.reset()
What are the types of validator functions? - Sync, Async
Can you give an example of built-in validators?
How do you optimize the performance of async validators?
How to set ngFor and ngIf on the same element?
What is host property in css? - used to target styles in the element that hosts the component.
How do you get the current route?
What is Component Test harness? - esting API around an Angular directive or component to
 make tests simpler by hiding implementation details from test suites.
What is the benifit of Automatic inling of fonts ?













